So again, my name is Ty McDuffie,
founder of Griot and Grits.
Um, I don't have a middle name.
Uh, it is simply Ty or Tyrone McDuffie.
Um, I was born in, uh, West Islip,
New York, uh, in the county of
Suffolk, um, in 1971 on April 22nd.
I don't think I was named after
anybody or anything like that.
It was, uh, probably because, you know,
um, there were songs like float on
where people would be like, my name is
Larry, you know, and that kind of thing.
I think my mom just kind of was
like, Hey, Tyrone is a popular name.
You know, in the seventies,
let me give them that one.
Um, I don't have any nicknames
that I, that I was given.
I kind of tried several times to give myself
nicknames, um, that didn't really stick.
That never, that never works when
you give yourself your own nickname.
I wanted to be called at one time, bazooka Joe.
Uh, from the old bubble gum wrappers.
Um, I tried to be called Mac at one time.
That wasn't, that didn't work, you know.
So, I don't have any kind of nicknames at all.
Um, so, back to my parents.
Um, it's kind of complicated, but I'll
try to make it as simple as I can.
Um, my mother, her name was Josephine McDuffie.
Um, she was born in Ivanhoe, North Carolina.
Um, she was raised by Um, I think her
grandmother, I, I don't know, my, my siblings
might know a lot more, they will know a
lot more than that, about that than I do.
Um, and my father's name, which is the
complicated part, is, uh, was Perry James Love.
Um, they weren't married when I was
born and in fact he actually had,
he was married to someone else.
Um, and that's why I say it was kind of
complicated, so much so that I almost, because
I didn't even know he was my father until.
Um, I was well into high school.
Um, he would come around and visit
at the house sometimes, but I, I, I
didn't know his relationship to me.
I just thought it was, you know, one of
the, my mom's friends or something that
came over to visit every now and then.
Um, so yeah, um, it, it's,
it's kind of just, just weird.
I grew up a lot of my, spent a lot of my
life really kind of trying to compensate
for not having my father around.
Um, Um, you know, I wrote, I do a lot of writing
and I've written a story about it, about how
I would, you know, uh, make excuses, uh, for
not having my father around, like, um, and I
didn't know him, you know, I, I kind of painted
him almost like a superhero who's, who's Whose
only power was like being super busy and so
busy that he couldn't come to anything that I
was doing So I would always tell people he was
traveling he was doing this he was doing that
Um, and I remember a particular, uh story, um
in high school once I did find out who he was I
was in class and it was right before a holiday
break and we were in homeroom You know, they
would release you from homeroom at like half a
day or whatever and I was sitting behind this.
Uh, this student and he was And for some reason
this day, I felt like I wanted to tell somebody,
you know, Hey, I, you know, my, this is my dad, my
dad is named this and, and this is what he does.
And so I told this, this person that was
sitting in front of me, I'm not going to mention
his name because even back then he was a lot
bigger than me and he probably still is now.
So I don't want to incur the wrath of this guy.
Um, but I just, you know, told him, I was like,
Hey, you know, this is my dad or whatever.
Um, or actually, I had told him a couple of
weeks before that, that who my father was,
and he knew who he, who my father was, and
um, I guess he, he didn't live far from him.
So this particular day, sitting in class, I'm
behind him, and he looks around and says, Mr.
Perjane ain't your daddy.
So let me fill you in on
some stuff in the country.
We don't really say, you know, the name,
uh, correct, you know, like it's spelled.
So Perry became per becomes
per and James becomes Jean.
So it was per Jean instead of Perry James.
He says, so Mr.
Per Jean ain't your daddy.
And I mean, I was, I was floored, but you
know, I'm a teenager now and there were girls
around and all these other kinds of people.
So, I mean, I did whatever I could do.
And, you know, I was like.
You know, I retorted like shut up or something
like that or whatever, but you know, the
damage had already been done and I mean,
I couldn't, there's nothing I could do.
I couldn't prove it.
I couldn't do anything.
And so I remember, um, when the class
dismissed, I mean, before the class
dismissed, I had put my head down on the
desk because by then the tears were starting
to come and I couldn't be seen crying.
So I literally sat there with my head down
on the desk until everybody cleared out to go
catch the buses and I just missed my bus home.
Um, so it's complicated and I think it,
uh, it has affected me throughout life.
Um, it's given me, you know, like
abandonment issues and, uh, what they
call a people, people pleaser mentality.
Cause I'm always trying to
find ways to make people stay.
Um, so yeah, that was.
Kind of the situation I was brought up in.
Um, I don't know how they met.
I don't know Anything about their relationship
before I was born Uh, don't even know much
about it from after I was born, like I said,
he would just come over every now and then
and he would bring me like candy and sodas
and I remember sometimes he'd bring over a
big container of coins and he would let me
just stick my hand in it and bring out as much
as I could and I could keep whatever I had.
Um, he passed away a few years ago.
I'm not sure what year anymore.
I don't remember, but there's an
interesting story about that as well.
Um, I grew up really, really hating
him, uh, for most of my life.
Well, once I found out who he was,
well, before I found out who he was, I
hated the person, whoever that might be,
that was my father for not being there.
But then when I learned who he was, I hated
him even more for choosing not to be there
and choosing to be with his other family
over us and choosing his other kids over me.
Um, And so one of the things I used to say,
and I'm not proud of this at by any stretch
of the imagination, but one of the things I
would always say was I couldn't wait till he
died so I could go and just dance on his grave.
That's literally what I would say.
Um, so we fast forward a bit to he was
on his deathbed, literal deathbed, in
a hospital in Burgaw, North Carolina.
And he had had a stroke, um, and so he
couldn't move the left side of his body.
He couldn't, he couldn't move at all.
He couldn't talk.
He was like, or he was pretty nonverbal
at the time, but he was aware of things.
He could look around and you could tell, you could
look in his eyes and tell something was there.
Me, being the person that was trying to win
his favor and even in these last moments was,
I was in the room wiping his head, you know,
with a wet towel, just trying to keep him cool
and, you know, trying to show him that I was
there and it was me, uh, my brother Ricky,
um, a couple of other siblings, I think, and,
you know, we were just standing around and
I remember just starting to lose it, right?
The tears were coming.
I was wiping his head.
I was just Thinking over my life
without him and my brother, Ricky, he
says, Hey, you know, everybody, let's
give him a minute, you know, in here.
So everybody walked out and so
they walk out and I'm in there.
It's just me and my, my father and
I'm just wiping his head and I'm
trying to talk to him a little bit.
And, you know, I didn't know what to say.
Nobody knows really what to
say in that, that period.
I was telling him, I know I told him
I love him and those kinds of things.
And I remember he couldn't move his left
side, but he, you know, I was leaning
down kind of whispering to him and he
reached over and he kind of grabbed my
arm and he pulled at me a little bit.
Nothing really forceful, but you could
tell he was trying to pull me near him.
And so I lean all the way down to him and I
could, I could see his lips trying to move or
moving a little bit from the corner of my eye.
But nothing really was coming out.
Um, but at that moment, I chose to believe
that was him, um, asking for my forgiveness.
And I also chose to give that
forgiveness at that time.
Um, it, it, I'm not gonna say it didn't,
it doesn't still sting that I didn't
have a father around and, and, and
those issues that I have because of it.
But, you know, I feel as though we, we
made, um, a positive stride at that moment.
Um, my mother, who was, My absolute
biggest supporter, um, my first love, um,
she passed away a few years ago and it's
still really super, super hard on me.
Um, she was always the one, um, that was
like, just had my back in all situations.
It was a little, it wasn't like the real,
my mom wasn't an overly sensitive kind of
person, wasn't a touchy, feely, huggy type
person, but she showed love by doing things.
She showed love by making the money and paying
the bills and cooking dinner, uh, before she had
to go to bed because she worked, uh, at midnight,
um, at the, uh, textile place in our town.
Um, but you know, we all knew, um,
how she felt about us and everything.
And she was, she was a character, man.
I remember one day she came out dressed
for church, dressed to the nines.
And she says, Well, I'm sure glad it
ain't fox season because those hunters
will be after me and that's the kind of
stuff she would always say but I think if
You know, that's one of the funny stories.
I mean there another funny kind of story
is I remember for years She had this
old I can't remember what kind of car.
I think it was like a some kind of old Buick from
the 70s or 80s, early 80s or something like that.
It was a used Buick.
It had to be from the 70s.
And the reason I know it was from the 70s is
because it had an eight track and she would
play this eight track tape all the time.
And I remember hearing her coming
from down the road and it was that
song war, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun.
And she would just play that thing and it
would be loud and she'd pull up in the yard.
So that's one of the many
funny stories I have of her.
There's a load more, but I'm just not gonna, you
know, bore you guys to death with all of those.
I think if there was one thing I could
go back and tell them each about my
life, this is what those things would be.
For my father, I'd want him
to know that I forgive him.
I forgave him a long time ago.
And I've come to understand that being
an adult doesn't mean that you make the
right decisions or the best decisions.
It just means that you're older.
And you're fumbling your way through
life just like everybody else.
And I understand that he made a decision
to maintain his family, um, over, uh,
bringing me fully into the picture.
Um, I think I kind of got leaked into the picture
a little later in life, um, but I'm still, uh,
you know, thankful, um, for him giving me life.
And I'm, you know, I'm forgiving of
what happened and all those things.
And I made it out okay.
You know, I have a few issues,
but I made it out okay.
Nobody makes it through life without scars.
It just doesn't happen.
So, I would like to tell him that I'm okay.
And with my mother, more than anything,
I'd like to tell her thank you.
Um, for all those times
when, you know, we were poor.
We were poor, poor.
And I remember her going to bed.
She would make us dinner sometimes of like, Rice
with a can of stewed tomatoes stirred in it with
a little bit of butter, because that's all we had.
And, you know, I want to tell her, and I
remember her, she would give me her food
sometimes when I was still hungry, and I know
now, looking back, that she was hungry too.
And I'm thankful for those sacrifices, Mama.
I'm thankful for, you know, you sucking
up your pride whenever, back in the day,
um, the, what did we used to call them?
Not the, yeah, the welfare people.
Would come by the house and they would make
sure that there was no able bodied male in the
house That could be working and bringing in
money and stuff And I remember thinking mama
I would tell them off if they were telling
me what I couldn't do in my house and what I
couldn't You know couldn't have in my house
And she never did you know because she knew
that we needed those things to survive mama.
I'm thankful for You know you going out
and getting free vegetables wherever you
could and whenever you could now I hated
Absolutely hated shelling peas half the
day Shucking corn the other half of the
day, but I sure did appreciate those meals.
And if I didn't tell you enough, mama, I
appreciate your strength, your resilience,
your willingness, your intelligence,
my mother wasn't highly educated,
but she was extremely intelligent.
And I would tell them that mama, I'm okay.
And you did your job.
You helped me.
Off to a better start and you were even
given at the end of your life and I'm
grateful for it Um brothers and sisters.
Yes.
There's a bunch of us.
Um, there were eight of us Um, and i'll try
to say their names in oldest to youngest.
I don't know birthdays or I don't
remember birthdays So forgive me.
The mcduffie Uh, then it was Sidney, a.
k.
a.
Foot McDuffie, I mean Sutton.
Um, and he's the one that
passed away a few years back.
Um, there was, or is, my sister Joanne Bushra.
She lives in Florida.
Oh, and by the way, Nathan lives in New York.
Um, then it's my sister Wanda Sutton.
She lives in Wallace, North Carolina.
Um, my brother Bobby Sutton.
He lives in Wallace, North Carolina.
Dale Sutton, I believe is Leland, North Carolina.
And then is my little sister
Charmaine, um, Briggs.
She lives in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Um, if I was to think of their, you know,
kind of describe them and start with a little
bit of physical characteristics, I guess.
Uh, Nathan, we call him Monk.
I always thought he was like monk is
kind of he's not super tall, but he's
not super short, but he's very stout.
He does.
He's been doing like construction
contracting work most of his life.
And if I was to describe him, like his personality
monk is probably the most patient of all of us.
I remember one time him taking me fishing.
And one of my earliest memories of going
fishing and, you know, not, not the
earliest, but one of them, I love fishing.
He would, um, I thrown the line out or something,
somehow it got all messed up and jumbled up.
And I was like, Hey, you know, cut it.
Can you cut this?
I want to keep fishing.
He made me sit there for quite a while and
actually work the knots out of the line.
And he could have let me, you know, cut it.
Um, or he could have cut it, but I think what
he was doing was showing me, you know, the
patience to sit still and work through problems.
So Nathan's big thing, I think, if I would
describe him, his personality, his patient,
he's not a man of many words, actually, none
of my brothers, except Sidney, talked a lot.
Um, and so when, when Nate would say something,
um, you know, it carried a lot of weight, um,
with it, cause he didn't, he just didn't say much.
Um, Sidney.
Sidney Foote, his nickname was Foote.
I think it comes from the fact
that he always was a karate person.
He loved karate music.
He loved fighting, those kinds of things.
Funny story about him.
Um, he, um, one time I had, I had blown
out the motor in my, uh, Hyundai Sonata
trying to like race my brother on the
street in front of my mom's house.
And, uh, I guess I hadn't had the oil changed.
And so it done.
Some damage to stuff.
So we had taken it to a neighborhood
mechanic guy, um, to fix it.
He was a family friend, but he had
been taking like forever to, to fix it.
And I was without a car.
So I was bumming rides here and there, all
that kind of stuff to get to him from work.
Plus Wallace is about an hour and
some change from where I live.
So.
You know, I couldn't get down
there to check on it or anything.
Now, at this time foot was on, he had gotten, I
think it was COPD when he was in the military,
so he was on like an inhaler and stuff, but
remember I said he loved to fight and he
would tell me, man, I'll go down there and
I'll talk to him anytime, man, all I gotta
do is take a hit of my inhaler and I'm on it.
And so, you know, of course I would talk him down
from it, but he would go down there and talk.
He wouldn't never do any of those
kinds of threatening things, but.
You know, he was always all about
family and always wanting to take care
of everybody and be their protector.
So I would say for the most part, um, Sidney
aka Foot was, he was a protector of family.
You know, it was always family first with him.
If we went to Wallace, he'd want to sit
down and play Scrabble, which he'd never win
and he would cheat at, but he always just
wanted to have that family time together.
Um, Joanne.
Joanne is like the mother, the
second mother of the family.
Um, and I always tell Joanne if she laughs in
front of people and they don't feel uplifted
or feel better, then they don't have a soul.
Because Joanne is like, she's,
she's the greatest person.
I mean, just, she's feisty as all
get out, but she's just the sweetest,
happiest person you ever meet.
She has the most positive outlook on things.
Um, if you're ever feeling down, call Joanne.
So I think that would describe her.
And she's very small.
Joanne is like maybe five, two,
five, three, somewhere in like that.
She'll get so mad at this,
but I'm gonna tell it anyway.
And one year she was mad because her
job had asked, it was Christmas time
and they literally asked her to dress
up like an elf and she refused to do it.
So, um, she kind of got upset
about that, but that's Joanne.
Um, Wanda, Wanda is, is awesome as well.
Wanda is different.
Wanda is one of those, she's a free spirit.
If one, we would, I remember waking up some days
in Wallace and everybody's like, where's Wanda?
I don't know.
Where's Wanda?
And we get a call from my
aunt's house in New York.
Wanda's here.
We're like, we didn't even know she was, she was
leaving, but that's how Wanda always has been.
She's just been, you know, one of those
people, if she gets something in her
mind and she's going to do, she does it.
And there's no talking her down from it.
Um, so now let's talk about Bobby.
Bobby is, and I tell people this all the
time, and I hope I don't upset my other
siblings, but Bobby has always been my hero.
Um, Bobby's been the person that,
as far as strength goes, strength
of a person that I aspire to be.
Um, Bobby gets, he would get knocked down a lot.
He's gotten locked, knocked down a
lot in his life, but he always gets
back up every single time swinging.
And, you know, um, he's just, he's just
been, uh, he's a force, he's a force.
He makes things, makes them work.
You know what I mean?
And he's the most, like, I would say the most
dependable out of all the siblings here, at least.
Um, if you need something fixed, call Bobby.
If your car breaks down, call Bobby.
If you need, uh, you know, a floor
put in your attic, call Bobby.
I did all those things.
I mean, I've done all those things
and he's always come through for me.
And so again, Bobby's my absolute hero, man.
And if you're watching this dude, I love you.
And I thank you, Dale.
Dale is the hardest worker
I've ever seen in my life.
Uh, Oh, but let me back up to Bobby.
I forgot to tell a story about Bobby.
One of my fondest, and it's not
even a memory of mine anymore.
I have little bits and pieces of it is
when we first moved to North Carolina.
Um, I didn't know how to ride a bike.
So Bobby was giving me a ride on his
10 speed and I was on the handlebars.
You know how we used to do just riding
on the handlebars and somehow some way my
foot got stuck in the spokes of the front
tire and the whole bike just flipped over.
And when Bobby tells the story now, he
always says that, you know, he grabbed
me to keep me from getting getting
hurt because he knew mama would be mad.
But he always says, well, the minute you
got up, you were like my shoe, my shoe.
And he's like, well, I was all
scratched up and everything.
And all you could worry about was your shoe.
So that's just one of many
funny stories about Bobby.
Now, Dale, Dale, hardest worker I've ever seen.
Um, and Dale's, he's not a, not a big guy.
Never has been a big guy.
And I think he's one of the happy,
you know, he was always happy.
They used to call him a smiley in high school.
He had the big Afro and everything.
I have a picture of him out in the
front yard, picking out his Afro.
Um, but Dale's another, another positive, um, one.
They all, all of my siblings kind of
look at life, um, in a positive lens.
Through a positive lens.
Um, so, but yeah, funny story about Dale, man,
is if you ever need your stuff moved, if you're
moving from one house to another, call Dale, your
stuff ain't going to get there unscathed, but
it's going to get there because Dale does not
waste time when he shows up to work, he's going
to work and he's going to get stuff done and
he's going to get stuff moved and your stuff's
going to be packed like crazy in a truck, but
it's going to get there and it's going to get
there with dings and scratches and marks on it.
But.
You know, it's not because of lack
of his trying, you know, it was just
how he is, how he works baby sister.
Charmaine Charmaine is a
beautiful, feisty little spirit.
Um, I mean, and I tell her all the time, I
still think of her, like, in this picture I
got of her when she was a little girl, she
couldn't have been any older than, like, 3.
She just had a cookie in her mouth.
And that's how I still see her, even
though she's Much older than that now, um,
you know, with our own kids and things.
Um, but Charmaine is just like, you
know, she was always mama's baby.
You know, the last one she, you know, the rest
of us, like I'll tell about me, for instance, I
had to work in the tobacco fields and blueberry
fields and cucumber fields and pepper fields
and watermelon fields to make money, you
know, to buy clothes and things, not Charmaine
never had to do any of that, but Charmaine is.
She's a survivor, you know.
Uh, she's been through some things that have
made her personality the way it is, but you know,
underneath that hard fake exterior of hers, she's
a really soft hearted, caring, loving person.
Um, I would think, well, we all know who mama's
favorite one was, um, mama's favorite was Bobby.
And, you know, and I don't, I don't
know why Bobby always got in trouble.
Bobby always did crazy stuff.
He was Bobby was like.
the wild man of the family, but we
all know Bobby was the favorite.
I would say, well, it's a toss up between
Bobby and Joanne, because Joanne was like the
second mama, but Bobby was like, you know, just
that roguish boyish kind of, uh, young man.
So we all think we agree that, you
know, Bobby was mama's favorite.
Um, I don't know if we ever did anything crazy
together because they were so much older than me.
Um, me and Charmaine might have had a few
stories, um, you know, like for instance we
would trek around in the woods, me and some
of my friends from my youth would trek around
through the woods, you know, because we were
in the country, that's what country people do.
And we'd have an axe and we'd cut down trees
and stuff and there would be this little snotty
nosed little girl right behind us all the time.
And I even remember one time we cut down
this big tree because we were always
talking about building forts and stuff.
I don't think mama, my mama, or their mother knew
what we were actually doing out there cutting
down trees, um, and they never questioned us,
never saw us take the axe, so I don't know.
But anyway, cut down this one particular tree
and Charmaine was there, little snot nosed
little girl, and the tree started falling towards
her and we were screaming, get out of the way!
Move!
She didn't move, and the tree hit, was like,
quack, and it stopped like just a few feet over
her head, it got caught up in vines and stuff, so.
So.
Um, not only was Charmaine like, you know, strong
willed or whatever, she was also very, very lucky.
Um, so there wasn't a lot of crazy stuff
that I can recall with my siblings.
Um, have I been married before?
Yes, I've been married one time.
Um, I married, uh, Sharon Burwell McDuffie.
Um, she was born in Durham
in 1968, February 18th, 1968.
Um, we actually met in, believe it or not,
right before basic training for the Air Force.
We were at the MEPS station where they do all
the medical testing and all that kind of stuff.
Um, we met there.
Um, and then we got stationed
at, for basic training.
She was in one flight and I
was in the brother flight.
So we actually were right across the hall.
Um, and so we, we saw them,
you know, all the time.
And the funny story about that is, um,
she was actually trying to hook me up
with some of her friends in her flight.
A few of them like me, you know,
because my boy is good looks.
Um, a few of the friends liked me.
Um, and so we were in church one
Sunday and in full military gear.
And you know, you're not supposed to be talking
with the sister flight and all that kind of stuff.
So apparently we figured out
some kind of way to pass notes.
And so she had passed me a note
saying, okay, uh, these girls like
you, which one do you want to talk to?
Pass me the note.
I did the smooth thing.
I wrote you slid the note back.
She did something that was unexpected by it to me.
She sent me another note back
and she says, I'm not an option.
Checkmate.
Or so she thought, you know, um, so
I guess you can see where it went.
She didn't win that argument, but,
um, yeah, um, that's how we met.
That's how we, you know, uh, that's
how we built the relationship.
So I think, what first attracted me to her?
I think if you're talking about
physically, it was her smile.
She had these little dimple type things
that she would When she would smile that
I just thought were the cutest thing ever.
And I remember when she went to Wallace to
meet my mother for the first time, my friend,
Chris was over there or he went there.
And I remember being on the phone with him.
It's like, look at her smile.
You see the dimples, check out those dimples, man.
Ain't that cute?
So yeah, that was the thing that
attracted to me first, me to her first.
Um, the question is what made
me fall in love with her?
That's a, that's a tough one.
I think overall it was just her personality.
Um, she was, you know, she was strong but humble.
Um, and you know, she was beautiful
to me anyway, but you know, she had
so many of the qualities that I liked.
Um, I think, so yeah, I would think that
I fell in love with her because of, you
know, her strength, her vulnerability.
Yeah, so her career, um, she was,
so we were both in the military.
She worked in supply, um, which is like, you
know, whenever anybody needed anything, you
know, ordered around the base, they would go
to supply or put in their order and supply
would deliver it to them, whether that's
machine parts or folders or what have you.
Um, my career since we're here
was, well, we'll get to that later.
Um, her greatest career achievement, I think,
was, um, well, let me back up, actually, because
I didn't finish talking about her career.
So she started in the Air Force.
Um, when we got out, she worked, and I'm going
to get some of these, I might forget some
of these jobs, and I might not mention or
get them out of order if I do remember them.
But she worked for this company called Enmarsh,
um, in New Mexico, because that's where we were.
And she would, uh, take care of mentally
challenged people like at night, um, or during
the day, whatever the shift would call and do
things like take them shopping, things like that.
Um, she's worked at a Sam's Club,
uh, like folding clothes and things.
She's worked at like a, um, a school
or program for like troubled kids.
Um, and, um, oh, oh, and she was
an adjuster for Allstate, um, a
vehicle adjuster, insurance adjuster.
Um, that's the only ones I
can really remember right now.
Um, as far as an accomplishment in her jobs, I
think she would think or say that her greatest
accomplishment Um, was winning, uh, some kind of
award, um, in, oh, this is funny, um, while she
was in the Air Force, um, and it's her greatest
accomplishment, but it's also her, her most hated
moment because what she won was a flight in like
some kind of plane, a C 130, I think it was,
like a cargo plane, and you know, those things
aren't smooth rides, so she was talking about how
she was in the back of it, and the ride was so
rough and so bad, and all she wanted to do was
get on the ground again, And she was sick from
that flight for like two, three days afterwards.
I mean like physically just sick.
And so I think that's, that's, you
know, and that's one of the funny
stories, um, about her as well.
Um, growing up, um, did I have any
sense of us being rich or poor?
That's a very interesting,
uh, part of the conversation.
Um, I did have a concept of us being poor,
but it was weird because everybody was.
In my neighborhood, everybody was poor.
Um, so it's like asking a
fish if it knows it's wet.
It doesn't know it's wet until
it gets out of the water.
And it's like, hey, I, I missed
that, that wetness or whatever.
Um, or maybe I told that reverse, but either
way, um, I, I, I kinda knew, but it didn't
matter because everybody else was, um, I
remember one of the first times I knew that
we were really poor, um, was that, Mama
had bought me a Washington Redskins jacket,
um, from a yard sale unbeknownst to me.
And it was cool.
It had like the leather sleeves and you
know, it had the, the symbol, the logo
on the, on the, on the chest over there.
And, and it was red and gold.
And I remember wearing it to school one day and
this guy, I'm not going to mention his name.
He's like, Hey, that's my jacket.
No, it's not.
My mama bought me this jacket, man.
This is my Redskins jacket.
And he's like, let me, let me see it.
And he opened, he took the jacket
off and flip the tag up and you could
see his name written in the tag.
That's one of the, one of the first
times I actually knew or felt poor.
Um, and when I say poor, I mean,
you know, I, I kind of mentioned
like what we would eat sometimes.
And, you know, I mentioned how we would work
in the fields and all that kind of stuff.
Um, I remember also there were times when
we had to heat our house with the oven.
You know, we didn't have central
heat or anything like that.
We didn't have Like kerosene at some points.
Um, sometimes we would have natural gas
and a little gas heater, but if we were
out of gas, we would rent the house or
heat the house with the electric oven.
And we would hang sheets at the
doorways of rooms that weren't necessary
so that we could keep the heat in.
Um, I also remember, um, when we first
moved to North Carolina, we didn't even
have a bathroom in the house and this is
embarrassing to share, but it is what it is.
Um, we actually had like a big bucket that
we would use as a bathroom and we would
take it and down like this dirt road and
dump it in the woods whenever we were done
until we were able to get a bathroom built.
Um, because my mother had bought this
house like many, many years before that.
And it was like a one bedroom house.
It was just like one room, not one
bedroom, one room in the kitchen.
Um, and my uncle actually built
on more to it over the years.
Um, I also remember we didn't have a, you
know, obviously we didn't have a shower.
So we actually, this was kind of cool when I have
pictures somewhere, there's somewhere somebody
does anyway, on our clothes line, we would hang,
uh, sheets, you know, with the clothes pins.
So we make a little enclosure and
then we would have the water hose
over it so that we could take showers.
But, you know, a lot of times, uh, we would
actually bathe in these little, you know, Tubs.
Yeah, it was kind of like, you
know, it was, it was rough.
Um, but you know, it is what it is.
Um, I think we, you know, and, and in
reverse we weren't perceived as poor by the
other people, um, uh, in the neighborhood
because they were in the same boat as us.
Um, I do remember though, um, there were
friends that, you know, they would have
sometimes even less than we had to eat.
Uh, I remember, you know, sometimes their
breakfast would be a pack of these dollar cookies.
Um, that you would get from the stores
or that could be their lunch or a can of
like little potted meat or Vienna sausages
or those kind of things, but it was all
normal to us It was all normal and nobody
looked down on anybody else Because of it